but the interesting aspect actually is
when looking at this chart
as valuations actually have
just gotten back to the levels they were
in in 2020.
so many times you know we're discussing
and people ask me like why are
valuations dropping why are they so low
I think actually the right way to frame
it is
what happened in 2021 like why was it so
so high back then because if you look at
the edit from a longer time Horizon we
just go back to the level which we have
been for you know many years before
but this is kind of like old news
looking at looking at what has happened
a year ago uh looking back historically
so
what we did at krandom in in May was
we say let's try to get our stamming of
the of the current market you know
they're they're much fewer data points
around right now of France happening and
so let's really like keep our ears open
see all like compare multiples the
company is raised on and we surveyed
um with a with a good amount of tier one
VCS what is rounds they have seen rounds
that happen in their portfolio and what
are their current expectations
um for valuation and growth and
multiples when when you know companies
come to them to raise money
and so this was done three weeks ago and
so it's very tried to be a very
real-time look into the market
so let's look at that chart here this
chart shows basically the rounds that
have happened over there the past weeks
and months
and that uh have been mostly flagged by
by top funds who have raised by very
good investors
and so on the y y axis again you have
pre-money evaluation
and on the x-axis this time it's ARR
that they raced on
and there are a few interesting
takeaways and insights from this slide
so one is if you look at
the highest bubbles up there
all the outlier rounds that raised on
very high valuation have been AI runs so
at the moment there is a sort of AI
place in a different sphere the hyper
growth AI company is currently playing
at this different sphere and and don't
adhere that much to the you know laws of
gravity that we see for part of the rest
of the market
of course these are only outliers these
are few selected companies but we still
see some of them and you can see here
you know
no Revenue yet AI company raising on 200
million pre or a company in like less
than one million ARR raising above 300
million pre and AI you know in AI it's
like very large hyped rounds very early
on steep bets but we still sort of like
see some of these let's say 2021 style
rounds happening but they're mostly
focused on the category of
of AI at this point
and the other aspect which is
interesting here is
series a rounds
serious aerons typically used to be
so what is the typical number you had in
mind for series a round
2 million
I would say probably that's the right
number today
I would say 12 months 24 months ago the
most of the the most common number would
have been one million AR you get to one
millionaire you can raise uh series a
that has been a bit of the gold standard
sometimes and now you're right it moves
more even more towards 2 million and if
we look at the the rounds that have
happened here that being done by very
good funds is
you know between two and a half million
in AR and four million ER so you can see
investors have you know the rounds that
actually happened in the current
environment have tended to be later
series a in the terms of like
you know investors favoring companies
that have you know more to prove you get
sort of like more AR for the money
invested and and these kind of things
so take away serious really most seat
runs are either pre-revenue or late
seats at the moment
AR extension rounds are more mature and
have around two and two more than two
and a half million in Revenue
b-rons start at 5 million ARR with a
tendency towards more
and then selective AI deals the outliers
still still play on 2021 levels
typically if they show very high growth
and they race then on a can race on
something like 100 xar if it's like a
very
you know sought after and and
competitive process
and then
the bar is high
so when talking to investors about these
rounds that happened and what we saw in
the market
actually most of the rounds that that
happened have been more towards
three to five facts in growth so like
more high growth companies are the
rounds that actually happened
[Music]
so looking into the average multiples we
saw in these rounds that we also saw on
on the chart and more
so it's serious a the average has been
around 25x
after hours it happened in the past
months
and the median there
is around 21x so anything 21 to 25 x is
where sort of like the average or median
lies and of course there's a range the
range has been between 15 and 40x
for series B there was less of a clear
pattern
so it was harder to pull a median but
the average was around 24x
so slightly lower than series a but not
much significant
and then they have the third pocket of
the AI or hyper growth rounds and if I
say hyper growth rounds those have been
partly companies that have been growing
for example from like one to five
million ARR within a couple of months so
like very very fast growth
and they've been raising it you know
anything 40 to 100 x multiples or
sometimes even pre-revenue with like
very high valuation as we saw
so here in your slide we uh we see the
current expectations of VCS for healthy
ARR multiple at series a and series B so
when you're asking like hey what what do
you think is a healthy multiple at
serious AI what do you what would you
like to see
and here the answer is between series a
it's roughly 20 to 30 30X
so 70 of the people fall into that range
the bucket actually with the larger
largest you know share of answers 40
percent is 25 to 30X
and we asked people here to assume
one and a half million in ARR for a
series A
which means for a third 25 to 30X
a 37 and a half million pre-money
up to uh 45 million in pre-money
and then roughly 30 are fine to you know
go higher than that for example twenty
percent said they're fine to pay 30 to
35 x or see that as healthy uh which
would be a 45 to 52 million uh pre-money
for a company that does one and a half
million in AR
if you go to the right hand side here of
the slide
uh this is series B and here we assume 6
million AR for a series B
and there the picture is slightly more
concentrated where
most of the people think that 15 to 20x
is a healthy multiple you know for that
stage
you can see it goes down by stage
and also the distribution is less and
more people sort of like say that this
is sort of like the right amount it's
like 55 that go for it
there's you know a small percentage that
says it should be even less
and roughly
30 that say it should be even more so 18
say it's 20 to 25 x which would be 120
to 150 million in pre-money
and 80 say 25 to 30X which would be 150
to 180 million in pre-money
but the majority lies of 55 lies around
90 to 120 million as healthy pre-money
for six million arsas company
so what defines if you are in the lower
multiples or in the higher multiples
and of course as a Founder everyone
wants to be in the higher multiples and
as you know VCS we also try to help our
portfolio companies to raise great
rounds and like discuss this a lot
but
in the lower multiple buckets like so in
the let's say in a range of like 15 to
25 you would rather end up at the 15x
multiple range if you are if you are
growing let's say 2 to 3x
um so solid good growth but not hyper
growth not like very fast growth
uh that has an impact on your multiple
and you rather end up at the lower range
of of sort of like the ranges you just
saw
the other aspect is is margins
where
if if you are below the classical
software margins this also typically
gives a discount on your multiples
and then the third aspect is run
Dynamics so
if around is less competitive is there's
no tier one term sheet
then you know it's likely that you also
end up at the lower range of of uh of
the multiples
subsequently you end up on the higher
end of the multiples if you're growing
fast from what we see this is like
growing more like for around 4X or more
and
um then of course the fronts are
competitive with multiple term sheets on
the table and actually it's important to
have tier one term sheets among the mix
so this drives really competitiveness of
round typically
and then
and then you have you know a very good
chance to end up at the higher range of
of some of the multiples there
the Cavaliers of course
um
if the base of the AR is very low
uh you know multiple is of course higher
as you know if the denominator is very
small like 1 million ARR it's just a
very it's just a high number coming out
of it so for it to be you know more
comparable typically I think the
multiple comparisons work well from like
one and a half million
2 million ARR upwards when the base is
you know much lower than that then
multiples are simply just very high
because the the denominator is so small
in the calculation
what do people expect
for growth
and here the picture is more mixed
the good news is
I would say probably used to be 3x
throughout the bank like one or two
years ago yeah you have to grow more
than 3x
and you can now see is four Founders I
mean expert growth expectations have
gone slightly down
so
right now it's series A
it starts between like two and a half to
three x as the minimum growth
expectation
and then at series B it starts at two to
two and a half X as the minimum growth
expectation
and if you look at it the picture is
like you know at series a 40 47 Were
Meant to see minimum two and a half to
three x forty percent want to see three
to four x in growth and 13 will have to
see minimum Forex of growth to get
excited right now
for B it's 47 for uh
for uh two to two and a half X the same
pattern two and a half three x is forty
percent and a smaller percentage what's
just you know higher three to four x
here
but growth is only seen as very valuable
if it comes also with efficiency these
days
so the times where you could just draw
very high like have very high growth but
burn a ton of money
I would say these times have shifted and
now um
things like efficiency come more and
more into play and burn multiple has
been one of the metrics that investors
look at the closest at right now
and so what does this mean for series a
the expectation for series A
is
I think very clear here on this chart
where
one and a half like the minimum
expectation or like the range is like
one and a half to three x
is the burn multiple range that you can
play on uh as an a company to meet
expectations
and so forty percent are fine with one
and a half to 2X
40 percent are fine with two to three x
and then there's a percentage of 30 that
are fine with you know uh burn multiple
higher than three x at series A
that said the expectations get you know
much higher at series B and efficiency
becomes much more relevant even more at
that stage
uh where 40 of the people expect to burn
multiple between one and one and a half
which is considered to be a great burn
multiple
and 53 want to see one and a half to two
expert multiple so ninety percent of the
people of the funds want to see burn
multiples ideally be below 2X
and um 40 asset between one and a half X
so the expectations really go down which
means companies should improve their
burn between series A and B and optimize
more for efficiency at that stage
so on that question
um what to prioritize growth versus
profitability and this is the discussion
we have with many Founders and probably
in many boardrooms
and here the unfortunate number is it's
actually both
um so growth Amber needs to be looked at
in combination
uh I think they're
you know high growth uh gives it gives
you a bit more sort of like margin to
have a higher burn multiple but the burn
multiple still needs to be roughly in
line with the Benchmark expectations
so it cannot go completely whack
and then I think there's another caveat
to it which is
um you know it depends a little bit on
how much cash you have in the bank if
you have three four years of Runway and
know that you're not raising for the
next three four years
then likely you know in in year one it's
fine
to spend go more aggressive and have a
higher burn multiple why you know in the
year leading up to your next fundraise
it's a metric you should really monitor
even more closely to meet sort of like
uh the metric expectations when you when
you hit your next fundraise that
investors look for
this year is actually a really great
framework
um to look at this for a budget planning
perspective for startups or or also for
board discussions so I I'm I'm a big fan
of the burn growth metrics as a
framework where you put burn multiple on
the y-axis uh year over year growth on
the x-axis
and basically look at the two and in
combination when you do your planning
and ideally you put in lines for
percentile benchmarks and there are you
know great growth funds out there
publishing great benchmarks online and
reason is one of them uh uh that
publishes them online you can look them
up what is 50 percentile what is 75
percentile or 90 Alpha SAS
and um that map you know map these in in
the lines in in this uh in this Matrix
here
and I think it really helps to
discuss priorities of like how much you
should push for your view growth versus
you know how much should you burn and
how high can the burn multiple be in
that case
fundraising is of course about hitting
the metrics heading about expectations
well one aspect that sometimes gets
overlooked would I which I think is
really important and
almost equally important to just having
great a great business and great metrics
is
preparing your fundraise well and you
know thinking strategically of how you
approach your fundraise
and um last year at sastra I talked a
little bit about you know how to run a
good fundraising process and what are
the tips and tricks around it
and these are few
summary highlights from it which I
briefly will go through but also point
out a little bit of the changes to some
of the things from last year
so first of all
preparation is key so it's actually
worth it to spend the time to prepare
and thanks strategically around your
fundraise
and then it's typically smart to divide
it into like three phases that's how I
think around it of like fundraise
planning concrete preparation and an
active process
and fundraise planning is where you set
your goals round size
timing like when should I go out before
you know you run out of money
who do you want to raise from looking at
potential roadblocks
then fundraise preparation
and there I say you know start typically
one to one to four months before with
like relationship interchats and then
warm-up relationships two to four weeks
before sort of like you actually go out
and fundraise
reach out a week before you uh you want
to go out to the market to the funds to
set up meetings the typically takes you
know a couple of days a week to set
meetings up
and and do things like prepare pitch to
your existing investors before have mock
pitches pitch to Angels other
entrepreneurs gather feedback from them
and optimize sort of like your pitch and
uh be prepared for the questions that
are asked you
when you run the active process I think
it's very very important to uh be fully
committed to it I mean like it takes a
lot of time uh these days so
most Founders actually take 70 80 of
your time fully for a fundraise so like
one co-founder of several co-founders do
this they typically have one person in
the as a backup supporting them like
helping them with data helping them with
questions to be able to have like Fast
process iteration with VCS speed is
always a good indicator and uh and
something people like to see in a
process
I also always recommend to maximum have
five investor calls per day and not go
for like 15 because you sometimes
realize that people are you know worn
out at the end of the day don't have the
right energy of it so rather you know uh
Focus your energy on on five to six
calls today Max
and then really follow up so this is a
process it's like it's like a sales
process it's a pipeline follow-up with
investors if you've pitched them if they
haven't gotten back to you yet to three
days later send them an email ask about
next steps and really drive your process
and the most important Point here is
don't get blinded by initial off
only term she counts what do I mean with
that
it's the job of a VC to shine you know
to show your initial love
so think about it you're a Founder your
chapter VC you're like hey you know you
want to look at this and the VC goes
like this is great I love this area and
like we've been looking into this like I
I'm really excited to talk to you it
looks very interesting what you're
building your first call was great
this is what you'll hear most of the
time
and you like it right
but because if the other person if
another receipt would say like it's kind
of interesting
let me think about it you know it's
tough but uh maybe we get there let me
think about it who do you like more
of course person number one that shows
you love and is excited and you know
wants to spend time on your area and
these things but reality is most of the
people behind the you know behind the
scenes are type two and have those
critical discussions internally but
they're salespeople as well and they
show you love initially and what we
sometimes see is people get flattered by
it and say like oh I raise money easily
everyone says they love my product and
my area is so exciting I only need to
talk to five VCS because everyone's so
excited
no you treat it as a sales funnel don't
get blinded by the initial love and uh
and speak to more more VCS
so what has changed here over the last
year
um typically I said like raise money for
24 months of Runway now or 20 to 24
months of primary now I would say
actually 24 to 30 months of Runway
ideally to more towards 30 months of
Runway given the uncertain Market
it's not starting six months before cash
out anymore it's more starting you know
nine months before you run out of cash
because after two three months you
realize if the fundraise was probably
successful or not and um if it's you
know tough fundraise or maybe struggling
you still have the time to either try to
push for profitability or try to pursue
an m a route and go for an exit so
timeism is an important factor here
so what does this mean in practice of
what's different now these days
it's widen your funnel speak to more
funds
take more time go out and race earlier
adjust valuation expectations
if your expectations are too high
likelihood is that you know to raise is
much lower
and then flattened down rounds are
happening we're seeing them across in
the market everyone wants to avoid them
no one likes them but they're the
reality and I would suggest prioritizing
making around happen over pushing on
valuation and I think the market is
accepting and and you know everyone
needs to accept the downroads are
happening and also flat rounds are kind
of happening if it was inflated
valuations before
so this brings me to the key takeaways
the market today is prefer late seat and
a rounds with more AR
average AR multiples for A's are 25 for
b word 24 in the last month
at the same time investors consider 20
to 30 excess healthy and 15 to 20 acts
as healthy so a slight disconnect there
and I don't know or we don't know yet if
if the disconnect and expectations leads
to you know even
most of it's going further down and more
aligning with expectations in the coming
months
growth expectations have gone slightly
down while efficiency expectations have
gone up
and then accumulate more AR
before raising prepare your fundraising
plan more time speak to more fans adjust
valuation expectations and I hope
everyone here that in the Rock like in
the in the room but also beyond that
goes out and and fundraises soon that it
will be a very successful one and uh
that these data points here have been a
little bit helpful in planning your next
fundraise how to think about your your
next funding round and um if there are
any questions I I would love to open it
to a q a
um there's a mic up here which you can
come up for and and ask any questions
foreign
[Applause]